---
title: "Ayus Lactus With Potentised C From Malunggay"
date: 2022-08-11T11:22:16+06:00
description : "Basic Principles: The Theory Of Biochemical Treatment"
image: "/photos/malunggay.jpg"
author: "Jose"
---



## Basic Principles: The Theory Of Biochemical Treatment

Our body is made of cells.  Different kinds of cells build up the different tissues and organs of the body.

The difference in the cells is largely determined by the kind of INORGANIC SALTS which enter into their composition.  If we burn the body or any part of it, we obtain the ashes.  

These are inorganic constituents of the body (the SALTS of iron, magnesium, calcium, potassium, sodium) which build up the tissues.  

Besides these inorganic salts, the body is composed of water and organic substances in the proportion of 1/20th of the inorganic salts to the remainder of water and ORGANIC matter, but the latter, is INERT and USELESS without the inorganic cell salts.[1]

HEALTH is the state of the body when all the cells composing the various tissues are in a NORMAL condition and they are kept in this state when they each receive the requisite quantity of the needful cell salt.

The BIOCHEMIC SYSTEM of MEDICINE was first introduced by Dr. Wilhelm Heinrich Schuessler, MD of Oldenburg, Germany.  

He had researched the many roles of minerals in the human body.  He observed that if the body became DEFICIENT in  any of these important minerals, a DISEASED condition occurs.  He further studied the various symptoms and discovered which minerals are lacking in his patients.  

Dr. Schuessler  says, “The inorganic substances in the blood and tissues are sufficient to heal all the diseases which are curable.”


## Dr. Schuessler’s Biochemic Theory

- The human body contains 12 vital  Biochemical Tissue Salts which are responsible for maintenance of normal cell function.
- When from some cause, one or more of these substances become deficient the normal cell function or metabolism is disturbed and condition arises known as disease.
- By supplying to the system the lacking elements in the form of Schuessler biochemic remedies, normal cell function and health can be restored.


## The Minerals Have 5 Main Known Functions In The Body

1. They are components of enzymes.
2. They are essential for nerve impulse transmission.
3. They carry oxygen.
4. They form the building blocks for bones and teeth.
5. They are components of hormones.


### Basic Inorganic Mineral

These are essential to the proper growth and development of every part of the body’s system


### Calcium And Phosphorus

These two are often found together in the body and often work together too.  They are the most important minerals in the skeleton.

An eleven stone man will have about 2 to 3 pounds of calcium, and 1.2 to 1.7 pounds of phosphorus in the body.

90% of calcium is in the bones and teeth and rest in the blood and extra cellular fluids.  Because of exchanges everyday of these minerals between the skeleton and the fluid surrounding the body cells, they are not simply present in equal forms in the bones and teeth.  

It has been calculated that about 700mg of calcium enters and leaves the skeleton everyday in  the adult.

A deficiency of these two can occur if too little  is eaten in the diet, but also can occur even with a proper diet, or if there is a shortage of vitamin “D” (which is essential for calcium metabolism).

Calcium works as a “cement substance” that holds the body cells together.

Phosphorus is present as soluble phosphate in cells and fluids, where it forms the main negatively charged group of IONS (cations), which neutralize the positively charged IONS (anions), such as sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium etc.  It is also present in proteins, fats and carbohydrates.


### Magnesium

Its location is like calcium and phosphorus in the body.  Magnesium is mainly found inside the cells where as calcium outside the cells.

It is good for the heart and protects heart muscles against the risk.  The body normally loses magnesium with gastric intestinal and kidney diseases like chronic diarrhea, excessive passage of urine and also in alcoholics.

Magnesium and vitamin B6 in combination can help remove some kidney stones in susceptible people.


### Iron

Most important constituent of haemoglobin is the red blood pigment that carries oxygen to the cells.  Muscles contain an oxygen – binding iron containing pigment called myoglobin.  These supply an immediate source of oxygen during exercise.

Iron is essential for proper working of immune system (which is the body’s main defense mechanism – against invading micro-organisms).

When the body iron is too low, the bone marrow is unable to supply the necessary WBC to fight the infection and resistance is lowered for the disease.

It is for this reason people have anaemia and greater susceptibility to infection especially chest infection, gastro enteritis (caused by bacterium E coli), chronic infection of the teeth and gums and boils, etc.  The other causes of the deficiency of this mineral is heavy menses, piles, gastric or duodenal ulcer, long terms of taking aspirins, hiatus hernia and excessive alcohol intake.


### Sodium And Potassium

These two minerals, like calcium and phosphorus are closely linked together in the body.  They are body’s two main positively charged ION (anion) and found in solutions all over the body.  Both potassium and sodium chloride are salty to taste and this is why most body fluids taste salty.

Sodium is mainly found outside the cells and potassium inside the cells.  Sodium and potassium have to be in right proportion in the body.  They control the body fluids in balance if there is an excess of sodium in the body.  Water is retained when the body swells up (OEDEMA) and there is increased risk of developing high blood pressure.

If there is deficiency of sodium, it can cause dehydration.  Deficiency of sodium can be caused by excessive perspiring especially in hot climates, working in boiler houses and very high fever.  An excess or deficiency of potassium, for example, has a positively bad effect on heart muscle and even can cause heart failure.  They also help to control the acidity in the body.


### Fluoride

Traces of this mineral are naturally present in water.  Added fluorine improves dental development and strengthen bones by helping to deposit calcium.  Deficiency of fluorine causes poor teeth and bone formation and dental carries (decay).  Fish eaten with bone and tea are good sources of this mineral.


### Sulphate

This is present in the body as negatively charged IONS (cation) in association with positively charged IONS (anion) like sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium.

Sodium sulphate is very good diuretic, because the kidney cannot absorb the sulphate ions.

Calcium sulphate is important in the production of WBC which is necessary for the defense of the body against foreign organisms.


### Chloride


Chloride is not to be confused with CHLORINE (highly poisonous gas).  It exists as negatively charged IONS (cation), usually in the body with sodium and potassium to balance their positive electrical charge.

Chloride is mainly obtained from dietary sources such as meat, fish, poultry, milk, cheese etc.  Chloride levels in the body are usually related to the sodium levels in the tissues.  Chloride is not particularly harmful in the body, so toxic effects of sodium chloride are therefore caused by sodium and not by chloride.

Salt substitutes are normally made of potassium chloride as the body seems to be able to handle potassium easily.


### Silicon

Silicon is especially important for normal production and repair of tough connective tissue (collagen or gristle) and bones.  It is therefore, essential for connecting bones and providing the body structures with strength and flexibility.



### HERBS 

Herbs like GINSENG, GINGER root, GOTUKOLA and MALUNGGAY strengthen and support WEAK tissues.

They are naturally occurring sources of nutrition in the form of VITAMINS, MINERAL, ENZYMES and important intrinsic factors combined in such a way that they are BALANCED and respond rapidly in the body.  As catalysts, essential nutrients are readily assimilated by our body.

GINSENG root, a traditional oriental medicine, contains more than a dozen of biologically active saponins called ginsenosides. Tests have found 17 amino acids which reach their peak point during the sprouting season in April.

POLYSACCHARIDES from the root of ginseng have shown considerable dose-dependent immunological,  phagocytic and anti-complement properties.

MALUNGGAY, known scientifically as MORINGA OLEIFERA is one of the world’s most useful plants.  

It is used as food, effective flocculant (water treatment), antibiotic and a source of oil.  100 grams or 1 cup of cooked malunggay leaves contains 3.1g protein, 0.6g fiber, 96mg calcium, 29mg phosphorus, 1.7mg iron, 2.820mg B-carotene, 0.07mg thiamine, 0.14mg riboflavin, 1.1mg niacin and 53mg ascorbic acid (VIT C).

Malunggay leaves are an excellent source of Vitamin A and B and minerals such as calcium and iron.  It is even an excellent source of protein, being higher than the AMINO ACID pattern of FAO – reference protein yet contains very low fat and CHO.  The leaves are incomparable as a source of the sulfur containing AA methionine and cysteine, often the natural minerals human lack.


## Nutritional Comparison


<!-- Nutritional Elements | Food | Nutritional Contents Of 100 Grams Of Malunggay
--- | --- | ---
Vitamin A | Carrots | 4x more
Vitamin B1 | Pork | 4x more
Vitamin B2 | Sardines | 50x more
Vitamin B3 | Peanuts | 50x more
Vitamin C | Oranges	| 7x more
Vitamin E |	Corn Oil | 4x more
Calcium	| Milk | 17x more
Iron | Pork Liver |	2x more
Zinc | Almonds / Almond Nuts	2 x more
Potassium	Bananas	6 x more
Dietary Fibers	Common Vegetables	5 x more
Amino Acids	Garlic	6 x more
GABA (gAMMAaMINO
Butyric Acid)
Brown Rice	100 x more
Polyphenol	Red Wine	2 x more
Malunggay contains high levels of beta-carotene, Vitamin C and E and the phytochemical NIAZIMININ. These substances are potent antioxidants that protect cells of the body from getting damaged by free radicals. -->

100 grams of Malunggay leaves powder contains the following:

Nutrient | Amount
--- | ---
Protein | 46.4 g
Ash | 11.5 g
Beta-carotene | 45,172 μg
Calcium | 1.3g
Iron | 5.7 mg
Zinc | 3.4 mg


<!-- The fruit powder contained 4.1±0.1 mg iron, 3.2±0.0 mg zinc and 0.4±0.0 g calcium per 100 g. Phytic acid (368±06 -576±72 mg/100 g sample) and tannic acid (1280±24-1956±09 mg/100 g) from leaves and fruits were high. All products were good sources of total (24.3±0.2-39.9±0.2 g/100g), insoluble (19.6±0.2-34.9±0.2 g/100g) and soluble (3.1±0.2-5.0±0.2 g/100g) dietary fiber. Zinc availability (59.5±0.1-93.8±0.1%) from malunggay leaves was significantly greater than that of calcium (25.0±0.1-53.8± 0.2%) and iron (7.0±0.1-19.5±0.1%; (P<0.05). Similar trend was observed from malunggay fruit. Dietary fiber fermentation of malunggay leaves produced short chain fatty acids, propionate (161.8±5.0-210.7±13.1 mg/g) > acetate (1.4±0.1 - 21.7±0.1 mg/g) > butyrate (3.0±0.1-7.7±2.3 mg/g; P<0.05). -->


Free radicals such as hydrogen peroxide and singlet oxygen are highly reactive atoms or groups of atoms that are by-products of the normal metabolic activities of cells.  They serve a useful purpose in the body because they are able to help kill bacteria and other harmful microorganisms.  

But in excess, they injure cells.  They oxidize proteins and lipids that are inside the cell and damage the nucleus.

Free radicals are believed to contribute to such chronic degenerative diseases and many other conditions associated with AGEING.  Among lactating mothers, malunggay is well-known for its high calcium content and ability to increase the flow of milk.

MALUNGGAY is called a ‘miracle vegetable’ because it is NOT just a food; it is also a medicine.  It may therefore be a ‘FUNCTIONAL FOOD.’

