---
title: "Homeopathy Course"
date: 2022-12-01
# meta description
description : "We held our Lecture & Medical Mission at Santos Village, Las Piñas"
type: "events"
# first image will be shown in the product page
images:
  - image: "e/santos1.jpg"
---


<!-- The times call for a revolutionary change to bring back normalcy. Pandemic brought by the virus named COVID-19 has mutated variants, though differently named, are as deadly as the previous pandemics that have decimated the world population. Not only has fear gripped the world, countries had to rely on one another as a common effort to survive. This is not different from the times of the Cholera, the SARS, etc. which were induced by a variety of factors including health management in all aspects, be it personal, or family-community related.

More than ever, the human society has one arch-enemy — DISEASE due to VIRUS — that has claimed a great number of lives and seems to have no end that could be predicted. After two years of unsuccessful attempt to halt the VIRUS, in spite of the heights of science and technology has reached, the human society remains perplexed as to why insurmountable efforts fail.
Could VACCINES put the human misery to an end? Is there other possible course of action untapped? Homoeopathy may offer its assistance not as widely used nor known to many of the present generation and the leaders who direct the health protocols and nationwide management of death prevention.

After all, what is there to lose? New cases of infected and deaths are reported. When we close doors to knowing solutions, we may be causing doom as an end. Yet, I am not a doomsayer nor do I see the end of human race. Scientists and medical frontliners have given much and more .. . perhaps there are others who could create reform in our health management other than what's-commonly accepted or instituted. The present times remind me of Dr. Samuel Hahnemann, Nikolai Tesla etc. and sages and seers who kept opening doors to understanding energy and health.
Perhaps this is a time for resurgence of great men and women who dare to be different from what is considered "norm" or "normal". To dare change the current may help humanity find the share of "cure". -->



## 9. READINGS

Book | Author
--- | ---
The Principles and Art of Cure by Homoeopathy | Herbert A. Roberts
Guide to Homoeopathy published | GEDDESS GROSSET
Fundamentals of Homoeopathy Fourth Edition | Dr. T.P. Chatterjee
Homoeopathic Remedies in Verse | Dr. Kirpal Singh Bakshi
Homoeopathy | Rima Handley



## 8. HOW TO BECOME AN IDEAL HOMOEOPATH

<!-- What does it take to become an ideal Homoeopath?  -->

When a beginner scientist experiments, he pursues the procedures to prove the theory or assumption laid in mind. 

He monitors the changes and makes necessary records of what are observed to make conclusive understanding of the totality of the experiment. After several hours of prolonged studies, he/she is able to reproduce the results of his/her conclusions are shared with colleagues and others in the same field.

This scientific approach was also the method used by the homoeopaths of the ancient times. Not only did they ascertain the qualities of whatever was used in their experiments, they can even prove their conclusions by using their own selves (even as healthy persons) in making of homoeopathic remedies before they were shared to persons suffering from same symptoms.

Thus, the PROVINGS were conducted and list of REMEDIES were recorded scientifically by earnest homoeopaths such as its founder Dr. Samuel Hahnemann followed by later homoeopaths that included medical doctors who believes Homoeopathy.

HOMO (Greek) means SIMILAR and PATHOS (Greek) means suffering.

Homoeopathy means the use of the concept SIMILARITY

ALLO means "OTHER or DIFFERENT" and ALLO means the use of the concept of DIFFERENCE or DISSIMILAR. Here lies the major difference between the two approaches to healing. Although both deals with suffering, a hope of alleviating pain. Allopathy uses drug treatments with the "contract or reverse" of the disease. It is to combat, to fight, to make the course of the disease suppressed or annihilated.


## HOMOEOPATHY FOR MODERN NEEDS

Homoeopathy has more special place in present times, where every person is bound to suffer from one ailment or another due to stressful conditions and challenges that are faced, no matter what status or way of life chooses. The society has technologically progressed but is also plagued by numerous challenges brought about by demands of families, career, and ambitions. This situation calls for a holistic paradigm.

SYCOSIS is over construction in the physical sphere while PSORA is inability in assimilation. The treatment of varying diseases may have deeply rooted in Miasms.
Homoeopathy, being a wholistic approach, may open further doors to understanding energetic health that could sustain a quality life with awareness of the source of least imbalances.
Awareness of MIASMS as root causes of generational diseases keep the homoeopaths in close monitoring of the changes that occur as per the patient's progression in better health. To help "cure" a person is to study not only the current total picture but also to understand how one's health history also encompasses not just that of his family but also of the previous generations, a painstaking task for sure but definitely a major understanding of how to alleviate human pain.


Homoeopathic remedies have successfully restored bodies into their natural system of health. Assimilation of constructive materials is one functional example where there is symptom of an imbalance in organic, and also mental state.
Homoeopathic nutritive value of tissue salts work on deficiency.
SYPHILITIC MIASM is fundamentally venereal stigmata and is the basis for many constitutional problems. Syphilis is contracted from an impure coition with infections where vitality is lowered due to conflict on the person's moral standards. As a natural body process to expel the poison, a chancre (or chancres) may form in a body part such as the genital organs. When there is no suppression the vital energy may create the antibodies to cope with the poison. With the disturbance of the process, constitutional tendencies develop, i. e. deformities, ulcers, teeth malformations, chronic catarrh, etc.
Later states may take observable manifestations of depressions, melancholia, self-condemnation, slowed comprehension and fixed ideas, restlessness, etc.
Called by Dr. Hahnemann as a venereal stigmata syphilis is a constitutional disease of the modern times.
However, more difficulties are faced when the two miasms Psora and Syphilis are already contracted. Tubercular patient has both. Syphilis is easier to detect due to its specific characteristics but the psoric conditions have to be totally eliminated.
(Reference: The Principles and Art of Cure by Homoeopathy)
SYCOSIS is established after a suppressed gonorrheal infection that results into "a systematic stigma, permeating every living cell of the organism and transmitting its deadly destructive forces to the offspring as well as retaining the full destructiveness of the power in the original individual and impregnating the mother of the child".
Aside from certain characteristics observed in the mental states of a syphilitic patient, the sycotic may have physical "pains in the small joints with infiltrations and deposits... Stiffness, soreness and lameness are characteristic of this stigma. The troubles in the joints where there are deposits of lime salts, as in arthritis deformans, are sycotic. The gouty diathesis has a sycotic base. Herpes zoster has a sycotic base.
Psoriasis is a combination of the three stigmata, with sycosis and psora predominating."


VII. MIASMS

Homoeopathy works with Acute and Chronic ailments. In its early stages diseases manifest symptoms far easier to detect. As diseases go into advanced stages the symptomatic picture also changes. With the patients pumped with more drugs and worked on with different focus the human system is overloaded with antibiotics, painkillers, steroids, vaccines, etc. To get to the root cause of the current diseases that are diagnosed could be a most difficult task even to the most expert specialist, both in Allopathy and other modalities, including Homoeopathy.
Dr. Hahnemann posited the MIASMS as major roots of diseases that developed through generations. To understand the remedies that may unlock the secret that the body holds, MIASMS may seem simplistic but will be found only by going through layers formed upon the system through several factors, including our chosen way of life.
Homoeopathy considers the mentals, emotional and physical states of being. With deep seated imbalances in any aspect, the structural and functional changes occur. As layer upon layer is shed, we find the individual at its essence, and we see what diseases could run through families and clans, with possible preventive measures against transmission of generational diseases.
The three Miasms are PSORA, SYPHILIS and SYCOSIS.

The three Miasms are differentiated as follows: 

1. Psoric (deficiency of constructive elements) 

2. Syphylitic (constitutional) 

3. Sycotic (suppressed gonorrheal infection)

PSORA is the Miasm of Deficiency. A list of anti-psoric remedies has been published in Dr. Samuel Hahnemann's time. With deficiency of elements that promote natural and functional balance, the energetic flow would have disturbance and thereby cause diseases. Later studies on elements, the focus in nutrition included the vitamins and minerals as supplementation for a deficient system, whether inherent or caused by the lifestyles or surroundings.



VI. MATERIA MEDICA

MATERIA MEDICA is a Homoeopath's valuable guide on detailed information on Homoeopathic Remedies. Arranged alphabetically, each remedy and its source is also given, together with the symptoms that they correspond to.

Homoeopathic Remedies have been "proven" by Homoeopaths, and were developed through the years. There are remedies most known and commonly used, even as home remedies, with proper orientation. Yet, the more one knows about how Homoeopathy is most useful in total "cure," the better one will be acquainted with remedies that fit the ailment in the most effective way. Since Homoeopathy deals with patients as individuals with unique characteristics, each remedy also has been observed with its own characteristics that singles it out from other remedies. This is based on "Like Cures Like" which differentiates Homoeopathy from Allopathy that works on the premise of contrast.
Each person is singularly different and although Energy is a basic component of life, each person is equipped with diverse intensity of energy used in physical, mental and emotional spheres. With thorough diagnostics given on the onset of homoeopath-patient relationship there is deeper understanding as to how remedies vary. As an example, Bedwetting in an over conscientious, chilly, anxious child may be treated with Arsenicum while an excitable child with nervous anticipation may be given Gelsemium. Materia Medica allows the Homoeopath, beginner or expert, to effectively use the remedies through the detailed information shared. However, a sincere, Homoeopath does not end in just plain knowing much about the patient and the remedies that correspond to the total person but also how his way of life energy could be sustained and promoted maximally.
In certain cases, the list of remedies in the Materia Medica may narrow down to choices of complementary remedies. With patience one could still filter the choices to get the remedy that suits the person.
Remedy profiles are specific and together with the constitution the Materia Medica guides the homoeopath in selecting what fits the person. Remedy selection also considers the individual reaction to the change of environment where symptoms could be better or worse.
Thus, thorough diagnostics could assist the homoeopath in choice of remedies from those that are listed in the Materia Medica.


GENERAL
1. FOOD 2. WEATHER 3. BATH/SHOWER 4. STOOL/URINE/SWEAT 5. SLEEP 6. SRPS
MENTALS

IVAN PICCIO (a.k.a. ALOK) practiced Homoeopathic Medicine in Cairo, Egypt (1995-1998). His class was sponsored by Homoeopathy For A Change, an international association of homoeopaths in London. World-class homoeopaths from USA, Germany, England and India mentored Mr. Piccio.
In 1998-1999 he worked as homoeopath at the Homoeopathic Center in Cairo.
In 1999 his private practice was in Israel.
Mr. Piccio mentored several students in his Homoeopathy classes while in the Philippines and assisted several with his compassionate private practice.
His studies also included Ayurvedic Medicine and Acupuncture.
A BSBA graduate major in Economics/Accounting, with Postgraduate Studies in English Literature, he also studied Classical Ballet, Creative Dance and Modern Jazz.
He traveled extensively as a spiritual missionary teacher.



Dr. Samuel Hahnemann and his remedies were the offshoot of the need for cure and his method contrasted those of his colleagues in his time. His scientific background led him to the regular route taken by a scientist who used observation and experimentation, not on animals or dead humans. This was also the system followed by his students and homoeopaths who practiced and "proved" on themselves to show how the efficacy of the remedies worked on specific ailments. Dr. Hahnemann's remedies led to successful cures, and even from the start, with his Peruvian Bark (Cinchona) Malaria was managed successfully. Many other homoeopathic remedies followed the system laid by Dr. Hahnemann based on the principles and universal laws he worked with. Thus, from mother tinctures he created potencies that best worked with succussions to avail what was required to draw out or promote the energy that may again bring back the balance or homoeostasis to effect wellness.

How do the present health practitioners of different fields, including the modern day homoeopaths, deal with the changes in healthcare and influx of several modalities? With pandemics universally faced by the human society, the call for instant relief is no longer the major concern by most, both the patients and the doctors. With millions infected and in life and death conditions, the current situations are more of survival, rather than just relief, with cure almost a hope.
Suffering (pathy), in both cases of Allopathy and Homoeopathy, is more than just a need of a few but millions struck by a deadly virus where any one could be infected and everyone is at risk. The reports of cases of infected and deaths continue after two years that the virus has been detected and made known to the public. With such lamentable conditions, everyone involved in pandemic management has reached a point of utter disbelief how such virus has multiplied and even gave birth to more variants.
Allopathy, as the prevalent field of healthcare, turned to massive vaccination, in the hope of winning over the named viruses. Still, the epidemic is not contained and the contagion continued.
As hospitals became filled with symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were turned away. Many who chose to find treatment were reported as cases of dying without being admitted, and sadly without with suffering until the very end.
Apart from the vaccines, what could have been offered?



## 5. REMEDY AND DIAGNOSTICS

The passage of time and the centuries between the first Homoeopathy was introduced by Dr. Samuel Hahnemann and till the present, the knowledge and application of the principles have remained but the practitioner homoeopaths have varied in how they have managed treatments towards the aimed CURE of patients.

CLASSICAL HOMOEOPATHY is based on how Dr. Samuel Hahnemann perceived the healthcare system and prevalent management of diseases, including crises (cholera, etc.). With practices that seemed to worsen and caused more suffering, and deaths, cure didn't seem to give the society the needed focus.

Dr. Hahnemann "proved" remedies on living patients, including himself (other homoeopaths followed his example), and his principles were based on results from usage of his proven remedies given with respect to certain rules. Thus, the quality of life, the treatments that were conducted, and the respect accorded to the sick, whether physically or mentally, were maintained. We should remember that the Hippocratic vow and the oaths of those who are in health service are bound with such compassionate care of those who seek assistance to get healed.
There have been remedies most known universally due to the efforts of Dr. Hahnemann and the homoeopaths who followed his footsteps, and with his ideals, many more in the medical field were trained and homoeopathic hospitals were set up in Europe and the United States, and India (Suggested Reading on Kent, Tyler, Boericke and homoeopathy history.)
Homoeopathic Words require patience to be absorbed. To know Homoeopathy is to have a deeper understanding of how life could and should be treated with gratitude that even as varied humans have been created, Nature could provide a cure to end suffering in respect of such diversity. This is how Homoeopathy works. To know even some homoeopathic laws is to know much of how better wellness care for oneself and family is possible.
AU knowledge is futile without the sincerity of the learner. Lessons for humanity how to remain in total wellness continue to present themselves through crises and pandemics that inspire new discoveries and greater open-minded approach towards better human health, without experimentation on lesser evolved creatures. What we held as truths before may have to be sustained or worked over. There is no better time than now when universal healthcare system seem inadequate in its response to end suffering and deaths. The question remains the same:


Medicine is a scientific study of life and the cycles that it undergoes. The history of medicine may have started when questions of how life could be maintained even if death is inevitable. Studies have been recorded and shared yet the totality of records must have vanished due to much changes the earth has undergone through natural and manmade disasters. The following are but few of what may be considered as relevant to the history of Homoeopathy.

INDIA recognizes SHIVA as "Father of Medicine"

HIPPOCRATES is known as "Father of Modern Medicine"
GERMAN DOCTOR SAMUEL HAHNEMANN is accepted as "Father of Western Modern Homoeopathy" because of his numerous remedies and influence on his successors
Dr. FREDERICK QUIN started a Homoeopathic Hospital in England and was followed by numerous well-known American homoeopaths who set up clinics and hospitals, wrote books and trained young homoeopaths.
Homework
Research on the development of Homoeopathy. Mention a few homoeopaths who contributed to the speed of Homoeopathy


Homoeopathic remedies have been less understood that due to the study of common practice of allopathy with pharmaceutical medicines that are available over-the-counter as drugs that are mass produced and easily resorted to by the masses. Prescribed by doctors (allopathic), the pharmacists have been trained as well to handle "medical needs" to fit the ailments that modern man suffers. Quick relief for suffering, although seemingly beneficial, may turn out to be palliative and temporary with possible side effects from drugs that treat certain organs and could cause multiple organ breakdown, resulting to death.
The medical field has grown progressively as the quantitative desires simultaneously grew exponentially. Where material satisfaction over possessions acquired the "dog eats dog" veils the society with wanting more through quick fixes and instant relief from stress and imbalances from unhealthy mindset and lifestyle.
Although the medical field tries to address the needs of the human society, it has turned the focus form healthy individuals to a merry-go-round visit to hospitals where specialists work on specifics, as parts, rather than whole.
"Holistic Health is the science of well-being that emphasizes balance between physical, mental and spiritual realms as well as overall harmony with one's environment."
Accepted definition of the American Holistic Medical Association
As a contrast, a homoeopath has personal concern over health that is treated in its varying conditions as per an individual's journey to "cure," rather than "just treatments." The holistic process is towards cure of an illness that may be chronic or previous diseases that have been suppressed or forgotten due to fast paced life.
This is a basic difference between ORIENTAL (India as an example) and WESTERN approach to health. Based on the perception of what is HEALTH, the different modes of healing has evolved and has developed to address the ailments that continued to be more complex as humans handled and faced the complexities of life.



IV. HISTORY OF HOMOEOPATHY

HOMOEOPATHY was existent way before Hahnemann's discovery and sustainable presentation to the world. The German doctor, gifted with a pioneering spirit and perceptive mind, explained the scientific process that the human system undergoes when health is disrupted and imbalance occurs.
HOMOEOPATHY in India developed years before Dr. Samuel Hahnemann. Although ancient healing practices like NATUROPATHY and HERBALISM are known to modern times due to YOGA, AYURVEDA, etc. Homoeopathy has remained unknown to most or is turned to with less regularity due to lack of awareness and availability of homoeopaths and the remedies.
Modern Homoeopathy, founded by Dr. Samuel Hahnemann, developed reforms in the medical field and the procedures of patient management. His successors also continued the mission of "cure" through the principles that Hahnemann laid down, and to their own credit relentlessly pursued the making of remedies by proving, which were discussed in journals and books that propagated Homoeopathy. In time, studies on the field opened medical practitioners to this alternative approach for "suffering" (pathos) that visited humankind and destroyed the quality of life.
The Organon of Rationale Medicine was published in Leipzig in 1810. It set the principles and philosophy of modern homoeopathy and served as base for its further spread.
Modern homoeopathy may be practiced the same way not as classical homoeopathy that focused on the "TOTAL PICTURE" which considered the symptoms as a whole. Yet, the modern times could still benefit from the holistic approach of homoeopathy that incorporates healthy lifestyle consisting of daily hygiene practices and way of life with exercise, food, sleep. Modern homoeopaths may also work with other approaches to health therapists, etc. and be complementary to allopathy when necessitated.
More than ever, Homoeopathy reminds us of how health should be maintained and how understanding the changes our body goes through may require more than just visits to doctors to get prescribed drugs or rushing through the drugstore to get quick relief to our stressful challenges and aches and pains, knowing that symptoms manifest and should not be suppressed, not as diseases but as picture of ill health or diseases.



DR. SAMUEL HAHNEMANN (1755-1843) is known as the Father of Modern Homoeopathy. As a doctor in the late 1700s, Dr. Hahnemann observed suffering and deaths caused by then methods practiced in treatments given to patients. He was a forerunner of healthy ways of life and prevention of diseases through personal hygiene and better surroundings to promote healing in the hospitals which were in dire need of sanitation that were ignored during his time. In "proving" on himself, the experiments in the bark of the cinchona tree resulted into Quinine, malaria's effective treatment. His remedies were on natural substances and established the principle of LIKE CURES LIKE, the basis of HOMOEOPATHY.

Many doctors practiced the approach set by Dr. Hahnemann and established the Homoeopathy by 1812. As he wrote on his research work, he also taught Homoeopathy at the University of Leipzig. By 1830s, Dr. Hahnemann's following has grown.

Cholera epidemic in Europe was widespread in 1831 and Dr. Hahnemann's treatment with camphor was considered to have contributed much to the decline of the cases and successfully dealt with the epidemic. Dr. Frederick Quin (1799-1878) was cured and established in 1849 the first homoeopathic hospital in London, where he was able to cure a greater number of people who got sick from cholera resurgence. Homoeopathy was known to be resorted to by royalties who were among those who experienced treatments through the homoeopathic approach laid down by Dr. Hahnemann.



III. DR. SAMUEL HAHNEMANN Father of Modern Homoeopathy

ORGANON — "The highest ideal of therapy is to restore health rapidly, gently and permanently, to remove and destroy the whole disease in the shortest surest, least harmful way according to clearly comprehensible principles."
WO.
Dr. Samuel Hahnemann was practicing medicine among peers and colleagues who were far different in thinking as how cure could be achieved or should be done.
Reason and compassion seemed to be beyond reach, even with those who are supposed to understand how to bring back to health what was "harm" then must have aroused deeper understanding of how drugs and so-called treatments applied at the time of Dr. Samuel Hahnemann, were not of help, rather degrading and irregular.
Hahnemann's compassionate approach towards the suffering induced by the strategies used by those in the field of medicine during his time must have led him to take different modes of treating the sick. Not only did those times resort to what could be inhumane to his mind, the deaths that resulted thereby made him advocate for more reformed ways of handling patients, a reform that was years ahead of his time.
Thus, reform was instituted with protocols that doctors and those health services came to, practice in delivery of better healthcare.
STERILIZATION OF INSTRUMENTS AND SANITIZED HANDLING OF PATIENTS were among the hygienic practices that resulted.
Change of clothing, proper ventilation, clean surroundings (sewage, trash disposal, etc. resulted to unhealthy air within healing areas), and other practices that are quite observed in treatments done in pandemics. We should remember that Hahnemann's time was also during the height of cholera epidemic.
Inhumane practices included VENESECTION or Bloodletting done on every possible sickness which included pregnant women. Mental patients were manacled and tied down and went through humiliation paraded in front of people. The social stigma didn't exclude royalty who suffered the same fate under the common medical practices that caused more suffering than the diseases that visited humanity.



The LAW of USE of Homoeopathic Remedy must be "THE DOSE AND QUANTITY THAT WILL THOROUGHLY PERMEATE THE ORGANISM AND MAKE ITS IMPRESS UPON THE ESSENTIAL.

"VITAL FORCE IS THAT WHICH AFFECT THE FUNCTIONAL SPHERE OF THE INDIVIDUAL."
"NEVER REPEAT YOUR REMEDY AS LONG AS IT CONTINUES TO ACT."
[DEDUCTIVE REASONING is is the force which partakes that also restores."
ALLIED BY THE LAW OF MATHEMATICS
"The quality of action necessary to effect any change on nature is the least possible."
This is the guide for potentization where different potencies were prepared for remedies considered necessary to create change in condition.



[ "FUNCTION CREATES AND DEVELOPS
Basic Homoeopathy Course
2. DIRECTION OF CURE
"CURE takes place from above downward, from within outbound, from an important organ to a less important organ. Symptoms disappear in a reverse order of their appearance. The first to appear being the last to disappear."
3. LAW OF MUTUAL ACTION: "ACTION and REACTION ARE EQUAL AND OPPOSITE." To Homoeopaths, it may be the LAW of quantity and dose
"The QUANTITY OF ACTION NECESSARY TO EFFECT ANY CHANGE IN NATURE IS THE LEAST POSSIBLE. THE DECISIVE AMOUNT IS ALWAYS A minimum, AN INFINI-TESIMAL"
"The QUANTITY OF THE DRUG REQUIRED IS INVERSE RATIO TO THE SIMILARITY."
BIOLOGICAL LAW
FUNCTIONAL SYMPTOMS PRECEDE STRUCTURAL CHANGES. Pathological Changes result to Symptomatic Picture Changes. Author's Note:  
9
When the total picture is considered as per present conditions we must take note that some chaNges may have occurred due to the pathological changes brought by the suppression or other manifesting symptoms due to the development of the diseases.
Suggested Reading on MIASMS and Constitutional Remedies.



Life means motion. When movement is no longer available to the body — mind, system, organ or part, the human system fails to function at its fullest. This is termed as AILMENT or DISEASE.
A doctor may ask "what ails you?" Usually answered by suffering as pain or dysfunction. "I can't move my neck without creaks, etc."
"How are you?" may start with a reply of "just fine" and "ok." A person sees a doctor regarding an imbalance or disharmony in one's health and how he/she conceives where the suffering lies. Then the doctor defines the diseases and prescribes drugs. This is how allopathic treatments are usually done.
UNIVERSAL LAWS and MATERIA MEDICA Done by Dr. Samuel Hahnemann and succeeding homoeopaths Based on the "VITAL FORCE" (now more focus is on IMMUNE and DEFENSE SYSTEM) The list of remedies in MATERIA MEDICA resulted from continuous experimentations homoeopaths followed the laws and principles as follows: 1. SIMILIA SIMILIBUS CURENTUR
4.000•/"."'■■,,,,............................ .......0.000•000.• ■.,„..................,...........
As an accepted fundamental fact and a universal law, "What applies in natural laws that harness natural provers and resources such as the following sources." Vegetable (Plant Kingdom) Peruvian Bark (Cinchona) Mineral Ex. Silica etc. Animal also nosodes Ex. Snake Venom NATURE is natural, not synthetic, not simply processed nor placebo.



II. HOMOEOPATHY OVERVIEW
Dr. Samuel Hahnemann with his medical training and progressive way of thinking was ahead of his time.
VITAL ENERGY (PRANAH in SANSKRIT) became the core of HOMOEOPATHY as Hahnemann studied the human system in its normal healthy condition vs. the abnormalities that occur due to several factors, including progression of disease and ultimate death.
Homoeopathic diagnostics take the "total picture" and also consider the mentals (or mind states) together with the person's preferences (likes and dislikes) chronic vs. acute, environmental, etc. and Hahnemann "proved" several remedies on himself and understood substances conditions that caused disruptions or disharmonies in the system may also bring about the CURE.
HOMOEOPATHY (HOMEOPATHY) identified as a non-orthodox field of medicine where treatments towards cure is the goal, not as palliative nor suppressive. The diagnostics take the "total picture," not just as set of symptoms rather as an individual whose wellness has to be restored.
HOMOEO means SIMILAR PATHOS means SUFFERING
and Homoeopathy means "to treat with something that produces an effect similar to the suffering."
VITAL ENERGY as Base of the HOMOEOPATHIC CURE is also known as
PRANA (Sanskrit), KI (Japanese), QI, CHI (Chinese) and ORGONE (Greek).
is the base of martial arts, NATUROPATHY, SHIATSU or Japanese Acupressure, Aikido Acupressure, Tai-Chi HERBALS, BACH FLOWERS, and AROMATHERAPY, etc



Note: The general practitioners used to visit homes and know the family. They were acquainted with the history of what ailments the family has gone through and understand how to bring the family back to health through awareness of choices as to how to achieve a healthy lifestyle, once more. The family doctors were aware of how the community also helped in maintaining health trough the constant visits.

How does a Homoeopath address diseases? A Homoeopath considers - - -
The TOTAL PICTURE with focus on the individual as a whole. Although the symptoms are observed, they are taken as a whole, much like a camera that gives a complete photo of how the individual's health could be viewed.
PRINCIPLES as per the basis of diagnostics and remedies are observed and changes are given close monitoring
REMEDIES are given as per total picture.
In classical HOMOEOPATHY remedies for the same disease may vary when personalities differ. Thus, fever have different remedies as per the main CHARACTERISTICS inherent with the person's nature (which are same as characteristics in remedies proved)
A HOMOEOPATH is a friend who assists the healing process by drawing out what may be lurking behind the symptoms.
Instead of suppression, the ailment is handled towards cure, rather than just being sessions of treatments as consultations with the allopathy doctors. The homoeopath observes the changes that the person's health manifests until CURE achieved.
An expert homoeopath, Dr. Ivan Piccio, shared with his students a basic worksheet that could be of help to truly sincere enthusiast.



## I. WELLNESS vs. ILLNESS

To heal is to bring back to one's optimum health, otherwise known as WELLNESS, ILLNESS is just its opposite. WELLNESS means balance and harmony in one's total system. ILLNESS is when even one system or a part of the system is disrupted or loses its balance harmony with the systems. Symptoms of the imbalance are manifested and together these symptoms have been labelled special diseases in the medical field of ALLOPATHY. Example: PNEUMONIA, CANCER, TUBERCULOSIS, etc.
PATHY comes from Greek word SUFFERING. ALLOPATHIC Treatments directed to ease suffering through drugs that address any suffering or pain.
ALLOPATHY HOMOEOPATHY HEALTH vs. DISEASE (SUFFERING) mind/body parts 1 symptoms i drugs 1 treatments "dependency" person (individual) 1 total picture I remedies 1 cure "responsibility"
This makes the society dependent on the medical focus given by the doctors, nurses, pharmacists, who are all part of ORTHODOX perception of health.
Homoeopathy allows the body to heal itself by encouraging or stimulating the symptoms to express themselves naturally as per Remedies.
Allopathy suppresses the symptoms and gives drugs to supposedly eradicate whatever the body manifests and has labelled them in different names per symptoms.


Ofelia Alban Santos, D.I.HOM. Diploma in Homoeopathy (Corporate Trainer/Writer/Wholistic Wellness Coach/Community Organizer)

TRAINING CONSULTANT with several years immersed in corporate seminars and workshops conducted with pool of trainers engaged in the conceptualization, design, implementation, and evaluation of organizational and human resource development.
WELLNESS AFFILIATIONS included the following: (As Workshop Facilitator/Trainer, Wholistic Wellness Bodyworks Consultant) *Neomedix's Wellness Center (Tagaytay City) *Tahanan Growth Center (San Lorenzo Village, Makati City) *PCAM (Philippine College for Alternative Medicine, member, association for doctors and practitioners in different fields) *ORGANIX Wholistic Wonders and Centre for Wholistic Healing and Preventive Medicine, Makati City *Philippine Institute of Alternative Futures (PIAF--- Makati City) *B10-SYNERGY Philippine Centre for Wholistic Healing and Preventive Medicine (Pasig City) *Health Quest Centre for Wholistic Health and Studies (Makati City) *Caliraya Foundation for Consciousness and Environment (CFCE)
Note: This batch has been organized by Dr. Jose C. Mordeno whose sincere efforts to promote social wellness are pursued through wellness training programs for communities' organizations and individuals who are sympathizers and in active service of the society.


Mr. Mordeno is co-facilitator for this Basic Homoeopathy Course. His coordination with other alternative health enthusiasts has made this training program possible.

Jose C. Mordeno

PRESENT AFFILIATIONS *Filipino Inventors Advocacy Cooperative (RAMC) - Chairman *Filipino Inventors and Innovators Society -Chairman *Filipino Inventors Society (FIS) - Member *FIS Natural Medicine - Co-Chairman
PITACH's Technical Working Group (TWO in the formulation of Competency Standards and Code of Ethics for Homeopathy and the Guidelines Implementing on the National Certification of Homeopaths / Homotoxicologists and Accreditation of Homeopathy/Homo-toxicology Training Program Training Centers and Clinics


Ofelia Alban Santos, D.I.HOM. Diploma in Homoeopathy (Corporate Trainer/Writer/Wholistic Wellness Coach/Community Organizer)
TRAINING CONSULTANT with several years immersed in corporate seminars and workshops conducted with pool of trainers engaged in the conceptualization, design, implementation, and evaluation of organizational and human resource development.
WELLNESS AFFILIATIONS included the following: (As Workshop Facilitator/Trainer, Wholistic Wellness Bodyworks Consultant) *Neomedix's Wellness Center (Tagaytay City) *Tahanan Growth Center (San Lorenzo Village, Makati City) *PCAM (Philippine College for Alternative Medicine, member, association for doctors and practitioners in different fields) *ORGANIX Wholistic Wonders and Centre for Wholistic Healing and Preventive Medicine, Makati City *Philippine Institute of Alternative Futures (PIAF--- Makati City) *B10-SYNERGY Philippine Centre for Wholistic Healing and Preventive Medicine (Pasig City) *Health Quest Centre for Wholistic Health and Studies (Makati City) *Caliraya Foundation for Consciousness and Environment (CFCE)
Note: This batch has been organized by Dr. Jose C. Mordeno whose sincere efforts to promote social wellness are pursued through wellness training programs for communities' organizations and individuals who are sympathizers and in active service of the society.
Dr. Mordeno is co-facilitator for this Basic Homoeopathy Course. His coordination with other alternative health enthusiasts has made this training program possible.
Dr. Jose C. Mordeno
PRESENT AFFILIATIONS *Filipino Inventors Advocacy Cooperative (RAMC) - Chairman *Filipino Inventors and Innovators Society -Chairman *Filipino Inventors Society (FIS) - Member *FIS Natural Medicine - Co-Chairman
PITACH's Technical Working Group (TWO in the formulation of Competency Standards and Code of Ethics for Homeopathy and the Guidelines Implementing on the National Certification of Homeopaths / Homotoxicologists and Accreditation of Homeopathy/Homo-toxicology Training Program Training Centers and Clinics



Ofelia Alban Santos, D.I.HOM. Diploma in Homoeopathy (Corporate Trainer/Writer/Wholistic Wellness Coach/Community Organizer)

TRAINING CONSULTANT with several years immersed in corporate seminars and workshops conducted with pool of trainers engaged in the conceptualization, design, implementation, and evaluation of organizational and human resource development.
WELLNESS AFFILIATIONS included the following: (As Workshop Facilitator/Trainer, Wholistic Wellness Bodyworks Consultant) *Neomedix's Wellness Center (Tagaytay City) *Tahanan Growth Center (San Lorenzo Village, Makati City) *PCAM (Philippine College for Alternative Medicine, member, association for doctors and practitioners in different fields) *ORGANIX Wholistic Wonders and Centre for Wholistic Healing and Preventive Medicine, Makati City *Philippine Institute of Alternative Futures (PIAF--- Makati City) *B10-SYNERGY Philippine Centre for Wholistic Healing and Preventive Medicine (Pasig City) *Health Quest Centre for Wholistic Health and Studies (Makati City) *Caliraya Foundation for Consciousness and Environment (CFCE)
Note: This batch has been organized by Dr. Jose C. Mordeno whose sincere efforts to promote social wellness are pursued through wellness training programs for communities' organizations and individuals who are sympathizers and in active service of the society.
Dr. Mordeno is co-facilitator for this Basic Homoeopathy Course. His coordination with other alternative health enthusiasts has made this training program possible.

Dr. Jose C. Mordeno

PRESENT AFFILIATIONS *Filipino Inventors Advocacy Cooperative (RAMC) - Chairman *Filipino Inventors and Innovators Society -Chairman *Filipino Inventors Society (FIS) - Member *FIS Natural Medicine - Co-Chairman
PITACH's Technical Working Group (TWO in the formulation of Competency Standards and Code of Ethics for Homeopathy and the Guidelines Implementing on the National Certification of Homeopaths / Homotoxicologists and Accreditation of Homeopathy/Homo-toxicology Training Program Training Centers and Clinics





